firmware/doc/stargate-types.md, before:

# Stargate types

There are 4 types of Stargate supported by the mainboard.

## Movie

In the movie, every single chevrons move to lock a glyph.
The ring spin until it get aligned with a chevron, then it move to lock it, then the light turn on.

There is no chevron light effect in the movie, only in the serie. But the lightning effect is there anyway on the Kristian Gate. 

-- ADD A DIAGRAM HERE --

## SG1

The SG1 gate is similar to the the movie version, except only the top-most master chevron move.
To dial, every glyph will get locked using the master chevron. Then every chevron light-up in sequence, starting with the one right of the master one, going clockwise. 

-- ADD A DIAGRAM HERE -- 

## Atlantis

There are no physical spinning ring, every glyph location where the ring would normally be are screen, able to display any glyph.

-- ADD A DIAGRAM HERE --

## Universe

Instead of having a ring, the entire gate spin above the base. All chevrons are always lit but the glyph light up on the gate when it get locked.

-- ADD A DIAGRAM HERE --

Commit message:

Doc/pinkymaxou/improve doc (#2)
* Create partitions.md
Partitioning
* Update wizard-page.md
Based the wireguard example on a real config
* Create spin-algorithm.md
Gate spin algorithm
* Update spin-algorithm.md
Position calculation
* Update spin-algorithm.md
Calculate pos based on the glyph number
* Update spin-algorithm.md
Calculate the absolute position of a glyph
* Create homing-algorithm.md
Homing algorithm
* Stargate diagrams
* diagram with chevron numbers
* Stargate images
* Move the ring algorithm
* Gate spinning algorithm

firmware/doc/stargate-types.md, after:

# Stargate types

There are 3 types of Stargate supported by the mainboard.

## Movie/SG1

The stargate in the Movie and SG1 are the same, except the dial sequence changed a bit and lights were added on each chevron in the SG1 version.

![](./assets/stargate-diagram-SG1.png)

Source: https://stargate.fandom.com/wiki/Glyph

### Movie

In the movie, every single chevrons move to lock a symbol.
The ring spin until it get aligned with a chevron, then it move to lock it.

There are no chevron light effect in the movie, only in the serie.
But the lightning effect is there anyway on the Kristian Gate.

### SG1

To dial, every symbol will get locked using the master chevron. Then every chevron light-up in sequence, starting with the one right of the master one, going clockwise.

## Atlantis

There are no physical spinning ring, every symbol location where the ring would normally be are screen, able to display any symbol.

![](./assets/stargate-diagram-SGA.png)

Source: https://stargate.fandom.com/wiki/Glyph

## Universe

Instead of having a ring, the entire gate spin above the base. All chevrons are always lit but the symbol light up on the gate when it get locked.

![](./assets/stargate-diagram-SGU.png)

Source: https://stargate.fandom.com/wiki/Glyph
